welcome back everyone to another China
history podcast we're gonna finish off
kawashima Yoshi Co in this episode so
let's get right on it after proving so
useful to the Japanese cause in China in
the January 28th incident and in her
role as commander Jin P way fighting
bandits in Avoca Kawashima Yoshi ko
Soyoung and willing to go along with the
Khan well she had become like this Swiss
Army knife that had a multitude of
applications for her handlers so at this
sensitive time in the early years of
Manchu kuo these former ching dynasty
Royals like Puyi his brother pooja
Kawashima Yoshi co the Empress Wan wrong
they were all actors in this Bunraku
play with their Japanese puppeteers
dangling them in front of everyone
insisting to the world you see this is
for real this ain't no make-believe by
April of 1933 with Kawashima Yoshi codes
legend and renown on After Burner in
some circles muramatsu sho Fu's novel
the beauty and men's clothing was
published in book form after first
pairing serialized in a Japanese
magazine this book mentioned last
episode was a mega sensation and
considering the times it sure raised a
lot of eyebrows exaggerating the already
bodacious lifestyle Yoshi Cole if dand
even alluding to the alleged rape and
sexual abuse by her father what a Matsu
spared no sordid detail and as for Yoshi
ko yes she ate it all up and plunged
headfirst into the limelight and surfed
this monster wave of publicity all the
way to the beach she flew to Tokyo at
the height of all the hoopla and stirred
things up not disappointing the gossip
columnist at all saying the kind of
jaw-dropping things she was famous for
saying and acting is flamboyant as ever
whenever seen in public caught up in the
moment preening in front of
all her adoring followers making
suggestive remarks to provocative
questions all her loose talk came back
to haunt her one day she constantly
complained to the press that her life
was filled with rumors and hair saying
that none of what people read was true
but rarely did she ever give people
reasons to think otherwise
she had no agent who would tell her when
to shut up 1933 26 years old she peaked
hair her popularity the curiosity and
interest that so many people had for
this cartoon character that the Japanese
in China had dolled up to look like this
great freedom fighter Manchu princess
trying to restore the glory of her
people yeah this is when the problems
began to manifest themselves after this
whole media blitz would have Matsu sho
Fu's novel the commander gene leading
her troops on horseback to fight bandits
and uh-huh and being at the center of
all those wild Shanghai nights
kawashima Yoshi Co had now sort of
become too famous for her own good she
had no marketable skill set other than
being Kawashima Yoshi ko her father
Prince su had been her first means of
financial support followed by Naniwa and
others who she had lived off of she
liked to have a good time and didn't
like to skimp
she had an entourage wherever she went
her burn rate was high and as a lot of
people discover if you can't afford the
lifestyle you believe you're entitled to
but you have to find someone to handle
the financing for you the next man in
Yoshi COEs life who became one of her
more high-profile lovers was hi al tada
a major guy in the Manchu cooperation
the chief military adviser to puyi into
the Empire of Manchu Kuo he bankrolled
Yoshi go during the period when she was
as mistress
Yoshio was also seen regularly with joy
wada Kenji aka Lawrence of Manchuria the
man who brought us the month
an incident the invasion of Manchuria on
9 1831 he also ran Japan's secret
service in China
dhadak ng is one of those war criminals
who later on was deemed rotten enough to
end up hanging from the end of a rope in
1948 after being found guilty of war
crimes but in any case these were the
kind of people Yoshi ko had cast her lot
with besides these high-profile
characters she also enjoyed affairs with
other powerful and influential people at
the time men and women between riding
this tidal wave of success as commander
Jin at the Battle of huh and the big
splash of Moana matzos novel based on
her life she felt confident enough to
begin going off-script she began to
style herself as this Angelina Jolie
kind of advocate who wished to call
attention to the suffering and plight of
the Chinese people she even began to
point to the Japanese military as the
bad guys in many instances mentioning
many unmentionable things she had been
the creation of the guangdong military
but they seemingly created a monster in
well-liked all the men in her life up to
now they began to lose control of her
this begged the question in 1933 whose
side was she on now she had always done
well in her Matahari Tokyo rose and Lord
haw-haw roles but now she was starting
to worry the ones who had found her so
useful and reliable in the past August
1933 after an eight-year absence she
returned to her old home in Matsumoto
and she was still dressing as a man but
now she was wearing Chinese style
garments and of course because of who
she was
reporters flocked to her door to get
some dirt and words like no comment or
I'd rather not say weren't in Yoshi gos
vocabulary she kept on repeating the
same message the fighting has to stop
and that China and Japan should
reconcile and work for
as mentioned at the outset kawashima
yoshi co and she graduated from the
School of Life and her limited formal
education meant that when articulating
her thoughts and acting as a
spokesperson for the causes that she
advocated for well she wasn't that great
she had a ton of shine on her in a
Kardashian kind of way people were
intensely curious about every move she
made or utterance she said but in all
respects she was a rather underwhelming
speaker and whilst back in Japan now a
media superstar she went back to all her
crazy antics in public and private and
you know she had made up her mind early
in life that she was gonna do whatever
she wanted and wasn't gonna stress out
about what people said so she did all
the wild and crazy and promiscuous
things she was famous for all the while
enjoying the company of several lovers
along the way around this time just at
the peak of her success Yoshi Co began
having a rash of physical problems that
well in order to treat them she had to
constantly keep shuttling back and forth
between Japanese and Chinese hospitals
and because of the chronic pain she was
experiencing well like it happens to so
many in our day she got hooked on pain
killing drugs namely the fentanyl and
oxycontin of its day opium into the mid
1930s the stories about some of the
brutality meted out against Chinese
civilians where the Japanese military
were starting to spread can Yoshi Co if
anyone asked her for her opinion who
would speak out against this and say all
these things that ran counter to the
official Japanese narrative but anyone
who knew her whole story was cognizant
of her association with many of these
Japanese officers and officials who to
one extent or another already had plenty
of Chinese blood on their hands in March
1937 before all hell broke loose
following the Marco
Bridge incident in July Yoshio gave a
speech in which she said these words
sure to outrage the higher-ups in the
Guangdong military quote the fact of the
matter is that many of the Japanese in
China and in Manchuria have crossed the
waters to make money hand over fist I'm
telling the truth
and not exaggerating when I say that
they're only a bunch of losers no one
would associate with in Japan the kind
of people who can't hold down a job long
enough to feed themselves the Japanese
who should become the leaders of Asia go
over there and all the sudden make a
quick change and to unjam pennies
Japanese they bully our Chinese brothers
and sisters make them suffer and strike
terror into the hearts of the Chinese
they are hated tell me is this
acceptable behavior Japanese from the
Foreign Ministry the military the
privilege and the capitalists talk about
sino-japanese friendship every time they
open their mouths but the sino-japanese
friendship they're talking about is only
a sino-japanese friendship that profits
the Japanese end quote the heads of
Japanese operations in China all started
demanding that someone shut her up
in 1937 when she was living in Tianjin
thirty years old now yosh ago began
working on her autobiography that she
would call in the shadow of chaos I
couldn't find it on Amazon as I just
said July 7th 1937 three years to the
day before Ringo was born the Marco Polo
Bridge incident occurred in Beijing and
from this again manufactured incident
Japan had their casus belli to launch
their attack on China at the dawn of the
second sino-japanese war Yoshi Co had
opened a small restaurant in Tianjin and
during this period into her life
wata Yamaguchi Yoshi Co and the press
called them the two Yoshi COEs you might
remember Yamaguchi yo should go from
that cheetah cashing episode CHP 228 the
seven singing
hours of old Shanghai this was Li Xiang
lon if you recall from that episode she
led this rather extraordinary life Li
Shan LAN was about 17 and the other
Yoshi Co as I said was about 30 let me
just read a quote about what Li Xiang
lon Yamaguchi Oh Shi Co said about her
much older friend quote Kawashima Yoshi
ko gave me the opportunity to feel
liberated from my family school and the
monitoring of my activities but I could
also sense the sinister decadence and
desperation around her she wore her male
military uniform only when she attended
parties or ceremonies in her role as
commander Jin P way otherwise she wore a
man's black satin Chinese robe and cap
she always looks slightly flushed
she had a sickly pallor on her face arms
and skin she put on light makeup and
lipstick and made her eyebrows a little
darker she was always accompanied by a
group of fifteen or sixteen women who
were her bodyguards of course Kawashima
was the queen of the group no she was
always in man's clothes and so maybe she
should be called a prince and quote she
also wrote of Kawashima oh she goes
nocturnal lifestyle in this way quote in
Kawashima daily life night and day were
the exact opposite of what they were for
an ordinary person I gradually realized
that Kawashima 's life as commander Jin
Bway was over and she had become utterly
dissipated the curiosity she had
inspired as the Matahari of the east and
those glory days when she had been
praised as the Joan of Arc of the East
all that was gone the Japanese army the
Manchu Kuo army and the right wing Ronin
would have nothing to do with her
anymore end quote
it a little bit more than thirty years
of age kawashima Yoshi ko it pretty much
burned out Yamaguchi OSHA Coley Shan lon
whose star was now on the rise was told
to stay away from her kawashima Yoshi ko
no longer the star began to decay
to this pitiful frail human figure who
others avoided to unwilling to be drawn
into her craziness and strange behavior
her restaurant had shut down by n 1938
after an incident where someone was
killed and Yoshi Co injured her ex-lover
hiya oh tada now head of the North China
area army called
on one Sasakawa Ryoichi to deal with her
Sasakawa was a successful businessman
with tons of money and nationalist
feelings who also later on founded the
nippon foundation he was also quite
tight with the Japanese military hai-yah
who had called upon Sasakawa to come up
with a plan to get rid of Kawashima
Yoshi Co like permanently permanently by
this time Yoshi COEs movements were
severely curtailed by the Japanese
military they boxed her in and did all
they could to keep her from mischief
especially the kind that embarrassed
them no one could get to her unless they
walked that gauntlet of security rather
than assassinate her which was sort of
what Hiawatha was hoping for Sasakawa
took her to Japan and set Yeow should go
up and the city of Fukuoka and provided
for her there she wasn't in a condition
to do much and by this time Yoshi ko was
hardly presentable the opium drugs and
hard living had already taken its toll
Sasakawa became her lover and they had
an intense and passionate relationship
he was loaded was able to provide her
with adequate surroundings that kept her
out of trouble for any more trouble than
she was in already the Japanese military
in China who had grown tired of her were
relieved to be rid of their creation
commander Jean and he counted on
Sasakawa to keep her quiet so began the
Fukuoka period in her life though under
a limited form of house arrest she was
free to move about and became both a
regular crazy in the circle she wandered
in as well as a nuisance to local law
enforcement and one other thing
she went about all the time now wearing
this white kimono the kind of thing you
would only wear at funerals or occasions
marking the anniversary of a death it
was quite shocking for the time maybe
now - but her access to publicly
speaking out on all these sensitive
issues well that was quashed by now
the Japanese had rejected her and a
Chinese saw her as a no-good running dog
of the Japanese despised by both but she
kept up a string of high-profile love
relationships the authorities in China
and Japan may have abandoned her grown
sick of her but her adoring fans they
never grew tired of reading the latest
outrageousness and her life by April
1941 she finally received permission
from way high up to be allowed to leave
Fukuoka she probably should have just
stayed by now she was a physical and
emotional wreck and it didn't take very
long into the conversation to figure out
well she wasn't too all their mentally
either and not anyone who should ever be
left on their own before she returned to
China she spent a bit of time in Tokyo
and this is where she picked up four pet
monkeys and like Michael Jackson's chimp
bubbles remember him these four monkeys
became part of her zany identity she
never went anywhere without them she'd
walk around in public all the time with
a monkey on her shoulder which is pretty
far out even by today's standards even
here in LA people would say what the
heck well during the late 1930s and into
the forties she traveled between Japan
and China she once again made it her
mission to speak out about peace between
Japan and China by the early 1940s post
Pearl Harbor and nobody in Japan was
interested in hearing that she had even
appealed to Hideki Tojo and repeatedly
tried to offer her services as an
ambassador of peace needless to say no
one took her seriously and at this point
why should they she settled down in
Beijing with her monkeys whether she was
living in their world or they were
living
hers hard to tell where to draw the line
like everyone else my 1943-44 and Yoshi
Co New Japan was gonna lose the war but
for the time being she felt her chances
were better in China then the war ended
in August 1945 the atomic bombs were
dropped the Soviets invaded the former
Manchu kuo the Japanese military
skedaddled back to Japan leaving
hundreds of thousands of Japanese
settlers stranded all over the three
provinces that made up Manchuria and
they tried to make their way safely back
to Japan amidst an angry Chinese
populace bent on vengeance against these
Japanese civilian men women and children
the stories of these former Manchu quote
Japanese residents is one so haunting
and bitter and inspired its own genre of
literature after August 1945 if you were
Japanese it wasn't such a good thing to
be on your own in the middle of China
not for these settlers or for the 200 or
so people who made up the manchu quo
imperial court including the last
Emperor Puyi his Empress Swan wrong and
everyone else in that family including
eyes Shinji a loss nu aka commander Jin
P way and Eastern jewel so Kawashima
Yoshi COEs and came on October 11th 1945
when she was captured by nationalist
troops at Beijing taken from her bed
barefoot and in her sleeping attire and
thrown into a small cold dark prison
cell the next few years were filled with
horrendous misery as it was for the
whole Qing Royal entourage who had
pinned their last hopes on the success
of the manchu cooperation they too were
all captured no one suffered more than
empress wan wrong
the last Empress of China who was also
thrown into a tiny prison cell delirious
from withdrawing cold turkey from her
decades-old drug addiction her mind
never present in the moment
jailers used to charge admission to
locals allowing them to come in gawk at
this decayed royal who people at once
bowed before and who had lived a life of
sophistication comfort and luxury now
she was dressed in rags like a peasant
withering away
screeching out orders to imaginary
servants they stopped feeding her after
a while then she just wasted away in her
prison cell and died at the age of 39 on
June 20th 1946 her body was disposed of
you know when knows we're after two
years of languishing and her own
wretched prison cell at Beijing Club a
model prison and after enduring the most
degrading and humiliating treatment at
the hands of her tormentors who had no
sympathy for Japanese collaborators
Yoshi ko finally went on trial in
Beijing the date was October 15th 1947
the whole trial was a spectacle the
public and the government were gonna get
their retribution one way or another the
case against her and all her
eccentricities and strange behavior in
society her privileged traitorous deeds
reputation as difficult demanding and
often rude
someone showered with a sense of grand
entitlement in her lascivious romances
and public displays of errata sysm and
the exotic dancing she would do at the
Shanghai nightclubs unconventional for
the time her cross-dressing and sexual
openness and the romances with such evil
men even in 2020 TMZ would have been all
over this and then there was that novel
the beauty and men's clothing by mo
Tomatsu shofu though the book was a
fictionalized account of her stranger
than fiction life that content of the
book was treated as if it were a
scholarly paper and it was used during
the trial against her as practically -
smoking gun and then there was the whole
matter of her association with the
Japanese after all they had done to
China so fresh in everyone's mind having
such
close association with some of the most
evil militarists that the 20th century
had produced to date you know that she
was a collaborator but there was no
question from the mid 1920s to the mid
1940s there were countless articles
interviews pictorials newsreels you name
it there was enough evidence against her
to sink a battleship her attempts to
play this down fell on deaf ears and I
guess you could say for good reason too
in Kawashima Yoshii Co now 40 years old
she wasn't at the top of her game so to
speak it was a terrible witness
unintentionally making her situation
worse with her clumsy explanations and
often incoherent answers when asked once
why she dared to come back to Beijing
and why she didn't just stay in Japan
she answered that she had to return
because one of her monkeys had diarrhea
and needed treatment only available in
Beijing what else could yo she go do she
played down her Japanese nests and tried
to present herself as Chinese but her
Japanese was perfect and her spoke in
Chinese was lacking she argued how could
she be a traitor if she wasn't even a
Chinese citizen at worst she was a war
criminal but nowhere could proof of her
Japanese citizenship be found because it
didn't exist
Naniwa had never registered her she was
utterly unconvincing in her arguments
from herself she did everything she
could to reach out to everyone who might
possibly have some influencing saving
her life even her own adoptive father
Kawashima Naniwa he feigned like he was
trying to help her all this time but he
let her go everyone let her go and in
the end the military prosecutors had
this to say quote the accused jinbe way
also known as Kawashima Yoshi ko is the
daughter of the late Prince soo of the
Ching Imperial family she was adopted by
Kawashima Naniwa and lived in japan from
her childhood influenced by her
schooling and militarism she likes to
dress in male attire and admires the
ways of chivalry and
Bushido because of her relationship to
Kawashima Naniwa she came to know
important military and political figures
in Japan submissive to the whims of an
entire country she allowed herself to be
used by them according to our evidence
after the September 18th incident of
1931 when Japan invaded Manchuria she
participated in traitorous acts against
her native land in Shanghai the
northeast and other places for these
reasons we believe that the guilt of the
defendant is consistent with the traitor
punishment ordinances article 2
paragraph 1 subsection 1 of the Criminal
Code and quote yeah there was no denying
it
after the week-long sensational show
trial came to the exciting conclusion
she was found guilty of aiding Japan and
betraying her homeland and sentenced to
death as Kawashima Yoshi ko I seen
triage on Yu Jin ba dong Geun Eastern
jewel commander Jin and all the other
identities she had during these final
months and days of her life living under
the Fallas circumstances confined
controlled with no one who pitied her
did she close her eyes and remember all
those times more than a decade before in
the spring of 1933 when she was a
sensation all across Asia the beauty in
men's clothing the Manchu princess who
with her racy reputation all the stories
of all the zany antics of her brief life
let me quote Phyllis Birnbaum quote the
verdict condemned her for such
activities as becoming a dancer in
Shanghai in order to gather information
for the 1932 Japanese onslaught they're
bringing the Empress to Chang chuan with
the help of her brother Jin Pete dong to
install her as a female ruler of Manchu
Kuo serving as advisor to hiya Oh tada
and building up the military and Manchu
Kuo and other military plots trying to
get Subang when to surrender leading
bandit troops to establish a puppet
regime and
puyi as head plotting to bring puyi to
Beijing in order to revive the Ching
dynasty and overthrow the Nationalist
government and so on end quote
well regardless of how competent she
might have been or how well she prepared
her defense or how many witnesses that
may have appeared who exonerated her she
wasn't going to be allowed to walk free
there was only one way this was gonna
end and that was gonna be with a bullet
to the back of her head to the very end
she continued her frantic request to
Naniwa anyone else she thought might
help everyone in her life had cut her
loose the legendary China born
journalist for Reuters and ap Spencer
Moussa who flew to Taiwan with Chiang
kai-shek on the last plane out of China
he wrote of Kawashima Yoshi Co quote
penniless and bereft of her once
disarming beauty the Mata Hari of Asia
is awaiting with resignation her
imminent execution she no longer looks
the part of the Oriental siren who used
her charms to help Japan win the war
her upper teeth are gone her hair is cut
in a manish Bob and she wears a padded
gray jacket and slacks that made her
small figure look bigger than it is some
clues to her vanished beauty remain in
her fair-skinned large dark eyes and
small delicate hands end quote
mata Hari for those who've never heard
of her was a Dutch woman who in 1917 was
executed by the French for being a
German spy during World War one like
Yoshi Co she was also accused of being a
femme fatale and was famous for her
exotic dancing and sexuality and that's
it March 25th 1948 she was let out into
the prison execution ground and a
freezing cold Beijing morning in a
familiar manner she was shot in the back
of the head she had pleaded that her
body not be allowed to be put on display
before the public but they did it anyway
and hundreds of local people came by to
copy gander at her wasted corpse and the
gory aftermath of this kind of execution
method
her final pleas were not to defile her
in this way but the Nationalist
government wanted everyone to see her
and therefore displayed this grisly
scene to serve as a warning to anyone
thinking about selling out their country
in Chinese history books and in popular
culture she's remembered as the Dahan
gem the great traitor to the Chinese
nation and since that day which by the
way some people said was not the end of
Kawashima Yoshi KO there was this sort
of Bigfoot legend that arose which
proffered the notion that it wasn't
Yoshi ko who was executed on that March
morning it was some stand-in and that
she had actually escaped and lived on to
secretly carry on her mission of king
restoration an unnamed japanese monk
took it upon himself to deal with Yoshi
Jo's remains he had her cremated and
sought to her ashes eventually taking
them back to Matsumoto and today if you
ever find yourself in Nagano Prefecture
you could head over to shut ng temple in
Matsumoto and visit her grave there are
still events held today in that town
that annually commemorates her life
here's a small memorial room at the
temple that has a number of artifacts
from her life in a story like Kawashima
yoshi KO more people than phyllis
Birnbaum wrote about her since her death
she has been the subject of endless news
articles TV shows movies novels video
games and manga if you'd like to learn
more about Kawashima yoshi CO you're in
luck besides Phyllis berm Baum's book
there's plenty of other fiction and
nonfiction books serial dramas articles
and videos you can go groove on and if
you go to your favorite search engine
Alta Vista excite Ask Jeeves Lycos
whatever go to any of them and search
for Kawashima Yoshi ko and you'll be
able to see all the famous iconic images
from her childhood to the grainy
black-and-white post execution photos of
her lying on a wooden pallet of some so
surrounded by curious locals here to get
a look-see
now you'll see them all I've mentioned
her before
the late great all-around entertainer
who passed away so tragically young at
the height of her fame Anita Mui Mui M
Fung she starred in the lead role in a
1990 movie about the life of Kawashima
yosh ago and I had just recently moved
to Hong Kong and vividly recall that
movie posters for that film all over the
MTR we came out and I remember wondering
who was this trend Alphonse little did I
know thirty years later I'd be doing a
three-part podcast series of her life
once again I welcome you to sign up for
patreon and subscribed to yours truly
three bucks a month there's already a
few good stories waiting for you plus
more to come if you're a PayPal kind of
person and would like to donate to the
CHP to keep it going maybe for another
10 years
PayPal dot me slash China history
podcast links are posted at the show
notes at the teacup dot media website
well that's that Lazlo Montgomery here
signing off from the city of Los Angeles
California thanking you from the bottom
of my heart for suffering through this
series and hoping you'll come back next
time for another exciting episode of a
china history podcast